Add spacy-llm docs to webiste (#12782)
explosion/spaCy: website/docs/api/large-language-models.mdx

---
title: Large Language Models
teaser: Integrating LLMs into structured NLP pipelines
menu:
  - ['Config', 'config']
  - ['Tasks', 'tasks']
  - ['Models', 'models']
  - ['Cache', 'cache']
  - ['Various Functions', 'various-functions']
---

[The spacy-llm package](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm) integrates Large

> Language Models (LLMs) into [spaCy](https://spacy.io), featuring a modular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Language Models (LLMs) into spaCy, featuring a modular
```

`spacy-llm` exposes a `llm` factory that accepts the following configuration
options:

| Argument         | Description                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `task`           | An LLMTask can generate prompts and parse LLM responses. See [docs](#tasks). ~~Optional[LLMTask]~~      |
| `model`          | Callable querying a specific LLM API. See [docs](#models). ~~Callable[[Iterable[Any]], Iterable[Any]]~~ |
| `cache`          | Cache to use for caching prompts and responses per doc (batch). See [docs](#cache). ~~Cache~~           |
| `save_io`        | Whether to save prompts/responses within `Doc.user_data["llm_io"]`. ~~bool~~                            |
| `validate_types` | Whether to check if signatures of configured model and task are consistent. ~~bool~~                    |

An `llm` component is defined by two main settings:

- A [**task**](#tasks), defining the prompt to send to the LLM as well as the
  functionality to parse the resulting response back into structured fields on

>   spaCy's [Doc](https://spacy.io/api/doc) objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the [Doc](https://spacy.io/api/doc) objects.
```

- A [**model**](#models) defining the model and how to connect to it. Note that
  `spacy-llm` supports both access to external APIs (such as OpenAI) as well as
  access to self-hosted open-source LLMs (such as using Dolly through Hugging
  Face).

Moreover, `spacy-llm` exposes a customizable [**caching**](#cache) functionality
to avoid running the same document through an LLM service (be it local or
through a REST API) more than once.

Finally, you can choose to save a stringified version of LLM prompts/responses
within the `Doc.user_data["llm_io"]` attribute by setting `save_io` to `True`.
`Doc.user_data["llm_io"]` is a dictionary containing one entry for every LLM

> component within the spaCy pipeline. Each entry is itself a dictionary, with two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component within the `nlp` pipeline. Each entry is itself a dictionary, with two
```

keys: `prompt` and `response`.

A note on `validate_types`: by default, `spacy-llm` checks whether the
signatures of the `model` and `task` callables are consistent with each other
and emits a warning if they don't. `validate_types` can be set to `False` if you
want to disable this behavior.

### Tasks {id="tasks"}

A _task_ defines an NLP problem or question, that will be sent to the LLM via a
prompt. Further, the task defines how to parse the LLM's responses back into

> structured information. All tasks are registered in spaCy's `llm_tasks`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structured information. All tasks are registered in the `llm_tasks`
```

| `template` | Custom prompt template to send to LLM model. Default templates for each task are located in the `spacy_llm/tasks/templates` directory. Defaults to [lemma.jinja](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/main/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/lemma.jinja). ~~str~~ |
| `examples` | Optional function that generates examples for few-shot learning. Defaults to `None`. ~~Optional[Callable[[], Iterable[Any]]]~~                                                                                                                                    |

`Lemma.v1` prompts the LLM to lemmatize the passed text and return the
lemmatized version as a list of tokens and their corresponding lemma. E. g. the
text `I'm buying ice cream for my friends` should invoke the response

```
I: I
'm: be
buying: buy
ice: ice
cream: cream
for: for
my: my
friends: friend
.: .
```

If for any given text/doc instance the number of lemmas returned by the LLM

> doesn't match the number of tokens recognized by spaCy, no lemmas are stored in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
doesn't match the number of tokens from the pipeline's tokenizer, no lemmas are stored in
```

| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | The name of a Dolly model that is supported (e. g. "dolly-v2-3b" or "dolly-v2-12b"). ~~Literal["dolly-v2-3b", "dolly-v2-7b", "dolly-v2-12b"]~~ |
| `config_init` | Further configuration passed on to the construction of the model with `transformers.pipeline()`. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~          |
| `config_run`  | Further configuration used during model inference. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                        |

Supported models (see the
[Databricks models page](https://huggingface.co/databricks) on Hugging Face for
details):

- `"databricks/dolly-v2-3b"`
- `"databricks/dolly-v2-7b"`
- `"databricks/dolly-v2-12b"`

Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
can
[define the cached directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.

> 
> #### spacy.Falcon.v1 {id="falcon"}
> 
> To use this model, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed
> `transformers`, `torch` and CUDA in your virtual environment. This allows you to
> have the setting `device=cuda:0` in your config, which ensures that the model is
> loaded entirely on the GPU (and fails otherwise).
> 
> You can do so with
> 
> ```shell
> python -m pip install "spacy-llm[transformers]" "transformers[sentencepiece]"
> ```
> 
> If you don't have access to a GPU, you can install `accelerate` and
> set`device_map=auto` instead, but be aware that this may result in some layers
> getting distributed to the CPU or even the hard drive, which may ultimately
> result in extremely slow queries.
> 
> ```shell
> python -m pip install "accelerate>=0.16.0,<1.0"
> ```
> 
> > #### Example config
> >
> > ```ini
> > [components.llm.model]
> > @llm_models = "spacy.Falcon.v1"
> > name = "falcon-7b"
> > ```
> 
> | Argument      | Description                                                                                                                                                              |
> | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
> | `name`        | The name of a Falcon model variant that is supported. Defaults to `"7b-instruct"`. ~~Literal["falcon-rw-1b", "falcon-7b", "falcon-7b-instruct", "falcon-40b-instruct"]~~ |
> | `config_init` | Further configuration passed on to the construction of the model with `transformers.pipeline()`. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                    |
> | `config_run`  | Further configuration used during model inference. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                  |
> 
> Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
> can
> [define the cache directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
> by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### spacy.Llama2.v1 {id="llama2"}

To use this model, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed
`transformers`, `torch` and CUDA in your virtual environment. This allows you to
have the setting `device=cuda:0` in your config, which ensures that the model is
loaded entirely on the GPU (and fails otherwise).

You can do so with

```shell
python -m pip install "spacy-llm[transformers]" "transformers[sentencepiece]"
```

If you don't have access to a GPU, you can install `accelerate` and
set`device_map=auto` instead, but be aware that this may result in some layers
getting distributed to the CPU or even the hard drive, which may ultimately
result in extremely slow queries.

```shell
python -m pip install "accelerate>=0.16.0,<1.0"
```

Note that the chat models variants of Llama 2 are currently not supported. This is because they need a particular prompting setup and don't add any discernible benefits in the use case of `spacy-llm` (i. e. no interactive chat) compared the completion model variants.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Llama2.v1"
> name = "llama2-7b-hf"
> ```

| Argument      | Description                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `name`        | The name of a Llama 2 model variant that is supported. Defaults to `"Llama-2-7b-hf"`. ~~Literal["Llama-2-7b-hf", "Llama-2-13b-hf", "Llama-2-70b-hf"]~~ |
| `config_init` | Further configuration passed on to the construction of the model with `transformers.pipeline()`. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                    |
| `config_run`  | Further configuration used during model inference. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                  |

Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
can
[define the cache directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.

#### spacy.Falcon.v1 {id="falcon"}

To use this model, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed
`transformers`, `torch` and CUDA in your virtual environment. This allows you to
have the setting `device=cuda:0` in your config, which ensures that the model is
loaded entirely on the GPU (and fails otherwise).

You can do so with

```shell
python -m pip install "spacy-llm[transformers]" "transformers[sentencepiece]"
```

If you don't have access to a GPU, you can install `accelerate` and
set`device_map=auto` instead, but be aware that this may result in some layers
getting distributed to the CPU or even the hard drive, which may ultimately
result in extremely slow queries.

```shell
python -m pip install "accelerate>=0.16.0,<1.0"
```

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Falcon.v1"
> name = "falcon-7b"
> ```

| Argument      | Description                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `name`        | The name of a Falcon model variant that is supported. Defaults to `"7b-instruct"`. ~~Literal["falcon-rw-1b", "falcon-7b", "falcon-7b-instruct", "falcon-40b-instruct"]~~ |
| `config_init` | Further configuration passed on to the construction of the model with `transformers.pipeline()`. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                    |
| `config_run`  | Further configuration used during model inference. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                  |

Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
can
[define the cache directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.
```

of many different LLM APIs, and other related features such as conversational
memory or agents. `spacy-llm` on the other hand emphasizes features we consider
useful in the context of NLP pipelines utilizing LLMs to process documents
(mostly) independent from each other. It makes sense that the feature sets of
such third-party libraries and `spacy-llm` aren't identical - and users might
want to take advantage of features not available in `spacy-llm`.

The advantage of implementing our own REST and HuggingFace integrations is that
we can ensure a larger degree of stability and robustness, as we can guarantee
backwards-compatibility and more smoothly integrated error handling.

If however there are features or APIs not natively covered by `spacy-llm`, it's
trivial to utilize LangChain to cover this - and easy to customize the prompting
mechanism, if so required.

</Infobox>

Note that when using hosted services, you have to ensure that the proper API
keys are set as environment variables as described by the corresponding
provider's documentation.

E. g. when using OpenAI, you have to get an API key from openai.com, and ensure

> that the keys are set as environmental variables:

Author: I was a little unsure whether to include this in the API docs or not, and now I'm second guessing 😅

Reviewer 2: Isn't that in the usage docs as well?

Author: Yes, I wasn't sure where would be best.

Reviewer 2: Hm, I'd say leave it in the API docs, but remove it from the usage docs.

| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"command"`. ~~Literal["command", "command-light", "command-light-nightly", "command-nightly"]~~ |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                                              |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~                               |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                                                  |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                                                   |

> 
> #### spacy.Claude-1.v1 {id="claude-1"}
> 
> Anthropic's `claude-1` model family.
> 
> > #### Example config
> >
> > ```ini
> > [components.llm.model]
> > @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-1.v1 "
> > name = "claude-1"
> > config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> > ```
> 
> | Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
> | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-1"`. ~~Literal["claude-1", "claude-1-100k"]~~             |
> | `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
> | `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
> | `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
> | `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```suggestion

#### spacy.Claude-2.v1 {id="claude-2"}

Anthropic's `claude-2` model family.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-2.v1 "
> name = "claude-2"
> config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> ```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-2"`. ~~Literal["claude-2", "claude-2-100k"]~~             |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |
```

#### spacy.Claude-1.v1 {id="claude-1"}

Anthropic's `claude-1` model family.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-1.v1 "
> name = "claude-1"
> config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> ```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-1"`. ~~Literal["claude-1", "claude-1-100k"]~~             |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |
```

> 
> #### spacy.Claude-1.v1 {id="claude-1"}
> 
> Anthropic's `claude-1` model family.
> 
> > #### Example config
> >
> > ```ini
> > [components.llm.model]
> > @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-1.v1 "
> > name = "claude-1"
> > config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> > ```
> 
> | Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
> | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-1"`. ~~Literal["claude-1", "claude-1-100k"]~~             |
> | `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
> | `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
> | `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
> | `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### spacy.Claude-2.v1 {id="claude-1"}

Anthropic's `claude-2` model family.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-2.v1 "
> name = "claude-2"
> config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> ```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-2"`. ~~Literal["claude-2", "claude-2-100k"]~~             |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |

#### spacy.Claude-1.v1 {id="claude-1"}

Anthropic's `claude-1` model family.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.Claude-1.v1 "
> name = "claude-1"
> config = {"temperature": 0.3}
> ```

| Argument    | Description                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"claude-1"`. ~~Literal["claude-1", "claude-1-100k"]~~             |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~ |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                    |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                     |
```

See the
[Stability AI StableLM GitHub repo](https://github.com/Stability-AI/StableLM/#stablelm-alpha)
for details.

Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
can
[define the cached directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.

#### spacy.OpenLLaMA.v1 {id="openllama"}

To use this model, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed

- `transformers[sentencepiece]`
- `torch`
- CUDA in your virtual environment.

You can do so with

```shell
python -m pip install "spacy-llm[transformers]" "transformers[sentencepiece]"
```

If you don't have access to a GPU, you can install `accelerate` and
set`device_map=auto` instead, but be aware that this may result in some layers
getting distributed to the CPU or even the hard drive, which may ultimately
result in extremely slow queries.

```shell
python -m pip install "accelerate>=0.16.0,<1.0"
```

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.model]
> @llm_models = "spacy.OpenLLaMA.v1"

> > name = "open_llama_3b_350bt_preview"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> name = "open_llama_3b"
```

> ```

| Argument      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `name`        | The name of a OpenLLaMA model that is supported (e. g. "open_llama_3b_350bt_preview"). ~~Literal["open_llama_3b_350bt_preview", "open_llama_3b_600bt_preview", "open_llama_7b_400bt_preview", "open_llama_7b_600bt_preview"]~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `name`        | The name of a OpenLLaMA model that is supported. ~~Literal["open_llama_3b", "open_llama_7b", "open_llama_7b_v2", "open_llama_13b"]~~ |
```

---

[The spacy-llm package](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm) integrates Large
Language Models (LLMs) into [spaCy](https://spacy.io), featuring a modular
system for **fast prototyping** and **prompting**, and turning unstructured
responses into **robust outputs** for various NLP tasks, **no training data**
required.

## Config {id="config"}

`spacy-llm` exposes a `llm` factory that accepts the following configuration
options:

| Argument         | Description                                                                                             |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `task`           | An LLMTask can generate prompts and parse LLM responses. See [docs](#tasks). ~~Optional[LLMTask]~~      |
| `model`          | Callable querying a specific LLM API. See [docs](#models). ~~Callable[[Iterable[Any]], Iterable[Any]]~~ |
| `cache`          | Cache to use for caching prompts and responses per doc (batch). See [docs](#cache). ~~Cache~~           |
| `save_io`        | Whether to save prompts/responses within `Doc.user_data["llm_io"]`. ~~bool~~                            |

> | `validate_types` | Whether to check if signatures of configured backend and task are consistent. ~~bool~~                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `validate_types` | Whether to check if signatures of configured model and task are consistent. ~~bool~~                  |
```

An `llm` component is defined by two main settings:

- A [**task**](#tasks), defining the prompt to send to the LLM as well as the
  functionality to parse the resulting response back into structured fields on
  spaCy's [Doc](https://spacy.io/api/doc) objects.
- A [**model**](#models) defining the model and how to connect to it. Note that
  `spacy-llm` supports both access to external APIs (such as OpenAI) as well as
  access to self-hosted open-source LLMs (such as using Dolly through Hugging
  Face).

Moreover, `spacy-llm` exposes a customizable [**caching**](#cache) functionality
to avoid running the same document through an LLM service (be it local or
through a REST API) more than once.

Finally, you can choose to save a stringified version of LLM prompts/responses
within the `Doc.user_data["llm_io"]` attribute by setting `save_io` to `True`.
`Doc.user_data["llm_io"]` is a dictionary containing one entry for every LLM
component within the spaCy pipeline. Each entry is itself a dictionary, with two
keys: `prompt` and `response`.

A note on `validate_types`: by default, `spacy-llm` checks whether the

> signatures of the `backend` and `task` callables are consistent with each other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
signatures of the `model` and `task` callables are consistent with each other
```

objects. This depends on the return type of the [model](#models).

| Argument    | Description                                |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `docs`      | The input documents. ~~Iterable[Doc]~~     |
| `responses` | The generated prompts. ~~Iterable[Any]~~   |
| **RETURNS** | The annotated documents. ~~Iterable[Doc]~~ |

#### spacy.Summarization.v1 {id="summarization-v1"}

The `spacy.Summarization.v1` task supports both zero-shot and few-shot
prompting.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.task]
> @llm_tasks = "spacy.Summarization.v1"
> examples = null
> max_n_words = null
> ```

| Argument      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `template`    | Custom prompt template to send to LLM backend. Default templates for each task are located in the `spacy_llm/tasks/templates` directory. Defaults to [summarization.jinja](./spacy_llm/tasks/templates/summarization.jinja). ~~str~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template`    | Custom prompt template to send to LLM model. Default templates for each task are located in the `spacy_llm/tasks/templates` directory. Defaults to [summarization.jinja](./spacy_llm/tasks/templates/summarization.jinja). ~~str~~ |
```

| `field`       | Name of extension attribute to store summary in (i. e. the summary will be available in `doc._.{field}`). Defaults to `summary`. ~~str~~                                                                                             |

The summarization task prompts the model for a concise summary of the provided
text. It optionally allows to limit the response to a certain number of tokens -
note that this requirement will be included in the prompt, but the task doesn't
perform a hard cut-off. It's hence possible that your summary exceeds
`max_n_words`.

To perform few-shot learning, you can write down a few examples in a separate
file, and provide these to be injected into the prompt to the LLM. The default
reader `spacy.FewShotReader.v1` supports `.yml`, `.yaml`, `.json` and `.jsonl`.

```yaml
- text: >
    The United Nations, referred to informally as the UN, is an
    intergovernmental organization whose stated purposes are  to maintain
    international peace and security, develop friendly relations among nations,
    achieve international

>     cooperation, and serve as a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations.

Reviewer 2: Could you remove the excessive whitespace?

>   "INSULT": "a disrespectful or scornfully abusive remark or act."
> }
> examples = null
> ```

| Argument            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `labels`            | List of labels or str of comma-separated list of labels. ~~Union[List[str], str]~~                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `label_definitions` | Dictionary of label definitions. Included in the prompt, if set. Defaults to `None`. ~~Optional[Dict[str, str]]~~                                                                                                                                     |

> | `template`          | Custom prompt template to send to LLM backend. Default templates for each task are located in the `spacy_llm/tasks/templates` directory. Defaults to [`textcat.jinja`](https://github.com/spacy-llm/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/textcat.jinja). ~~str~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template`          | Custom prompt template to send to LLM model. Default templates for each task are located in the `spacy_llm/tasks/templates` directory. Defaults to [`textcat.jinja`](https://github.com/spacy-llm/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/textcat.jinja). ~~str~~ |
```

  score: 1.0
```

```ini
[components.llm.task]
@llm_tasks = "spacy.Sentiment.v1"
[components.llm.task.examples]
@misc = "spacy.FewShotReader.v1"
path = "sentiment_examples.yml"
```

#### spacy.NoOp.v1 {id="noop-v1"}

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.task]
> @llm_tasks = "spacy.NoOp.v1"
> ```

This task is only useful for testing - it tells the LLM to do nothing, and does
not set any fields on the `docs`.

### Models {id="models"}

A _model_ defines which LLM model to query, and how to query it. It can be a
simple function taking a collection of prompts (consistent with the output type
of `task.generate_prompts()`) and returning a collection of responses
(consistent with the expected input of `parse_responses`). Generally speaking,
it's a function of type `Callable[[Iterable[Any]], Iterable[Any]]`, but specific
implementations can have other signatures, like
`Callable[[Iterable[str]], Iterable[str]]`.

All built-in models are registered in `llm_models`. If no model is specified,
the repo currently connects to the `OpenAI` API by default using REST, and
accesses the `"gpt-3.5-turbo"` model.

Currently three different approaches to use LLMs are supported:

> 1. `spacy-llm`s native REST backend. This is the default for all hosted models

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. `spacy-llm`s native REST interface. This is the default for all hosted models
```

   (e. g. OpenAI, Cohere, Anthropic, ...).
2. A HuggingFace integration that allows to run a limited set of HF models
   locally.
3. A LangChain integration that allows to run any model supported by LangChain
   (hosted or locally).

Approaches 1. and 2 are the default for hosted model and local models,
respectively. Alternatively you can use LangChain to access hosted or local
models by specifying one of the models registered with the `langchain.` prefix.

<Infobox>

> _Why LangChain if there are also are a native REST and a HuggingFace backend? When should I use what?_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Why LangChain if there are also are a native REST and a HuggingFace interface? When should I use what?_
```

| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`        | The name of a Dolly model that is supported (e. g. "dolly-v2-3b" or "dolly-v2-12b"). ~~Literal["dolly-v2-3b", "dolly-v2-7b", "dolly-v2-12b"]~~ |
| `config_init` | Further configuration passed on to the construction of the model with `transformers.pipeline()`. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~          |
| `config_run`  | Further configuration used during model inference. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                        |

Supported models (see the
[Databricks models page](https://huggingface.co/databricks) on Hugging Face for
details):

- `"databricks/dolly-v2-3b"`
- `"databricks/dolly-v2-7b"`
- `"databricks/dolly-v2-12b"`

Note that Hugging Face will download this model the first time you use it - you
can
[define the cached directory](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/guides/manage-cache)
by setting the environmental variable `HF_HOME`.

#### spacy.Falcon.v1 {id="falcon"}

> To use this backend, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this model, ideally you have a GPU enabled and have installed
```

| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`      | Model name, i. e. any supported variant for this particular model. Defaults to `"command"`. ~~Literal["command", "command-light", "command-light-nightly", "command-nightly"]~~ |
| `config`    | Further configuration passed on to the model. Defaults to `{}`. ~~Dict[Any, Any]~~                                                                                              |
| `strict`    | If `True`, raises an error if the LLM API returns a malformed response. Otherwise, return the error responses as is. Defaults to `True`. ~~bool~~                               |
| `max_tries` | Max. number of tries for API request. Defaults to `3`. ~~int~~                                                                                                                  |
| `timeout`   | Timeout for API request in seconds. Defaults to `30`. ~~int~~                                                                                                                   |

> #### spacy.Claude-2.v1 {id="claude-1"}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### spacy.Claude-2.v1 {id="claude-2"}
```
